Today, a lot of the emphasis is on how
frontier AI models are transforming
software engineering.
What we're interested in
understanding is how
that can begin to translate
into the physical world.
Robotics is sort of the clear entry point
to how you have a mostly software system,
start having the ability
to reach out into the real world.
Project Fetch is this self-contained experiment
where we wanted to measure
how much does Claude accelerate
humans performing
a fairly sophisticated technical task
that they do not have experience with?
Project Fetch was a one day experiment.
The experiment was three phases.
All of these tasks were shaped
approximately
like get this robot dog
to fetch a beach ball.
There were two teams.
These teams were comprised
of software engineers
and research engineers at Anthropic
that had hardly any robotics experience.
One team had access to Claude
and the other team did not.
Phase one was very simple.
It was to use the pre-provided
controllers to get the dog
to walk out to a beach ball
and bring it back
to where it started.
Alright.
I see. It's pretty intuitive.
And we're supposed
to bring it over by the bone?
Yeah, I think.
I think the team with Claude
took about seven minutes.
Alright, go attack that team now.
Go attack their dog. Charge!
Shoot, guys.
They’re destroying us.
Oh my god. Wait. We're getting,
we're getting destroyed.
The team without Claude,
I think, took 10 minutes.
Oh, sorry.
It's going to hit you.
Alright.
I'm going to do a victory dance.
Phase two was also a game of fetch.
But this time the teams had to program
their own controller.
You have to actually get access
to the hardware and design a program
that you can write on your laptop
that will control the dog.
Claude just like one-shotted a whole controller.
Alright, I'll do some calisthenics.
Nice, nice.
Is this for—
Oh, this is just control.
But that's all we need I guess.
This is from the official ROS2 SDK,
and I got this installed,
but then it's asking for
a whole bunch of other packages,
and that's all failing.
I've never really understood
how reliant I am on Claude
doing the menial work,
finding all the nitty gritty details
I don't want to have to figure out.
We can't, we can't get nervous about them.
You know what, I'm just going to install PIP
from the actual container later, so.
Oh wait. No, I can't.
I know I'm impatient.
It's been over a minute.
One of the primary bottlenecks of the
experiment is that you have this hardware,
you have this complicated
piece of technology, you have your laptop,
and you have to, like,
get your laptop talking to this hardware.
I am setting my Claude up to create a dog
server that all of our computers
can connect to to see
what the dog is seeing.
There are many different software
libraries on the internet
for communicating
with this particular robot,
and Claude found these things
for them, it installed
the right things on their computer
and it pretty quickly got them access to the dog.
Oh shit.
So fast.
Watch out.
Careful now.
Try not to run into the table.
Uh oh. Turn around.
It has a mind of its own.
Turn it off, it's alive.
Oh shit.
Stop, stop, stop, stop.
I think that team should be disqualified
for hitting another participant.
The team with Claude finished
phase two in about 2 hours and 15 minutes.
Probably the area
where we saw the most uplift from Claude
was just in the task
of connecting to the robot.
We think that's really important
because it is, in fact, difficult
for anyone to identify
an arbitrary
piece of hardware in the world
and figure out how to talk to it
and how to control it.
I think they got their camera.
They got their camera working? Yeah. Shit.
Was Claude even helpful for this part?
Or are we just slow?
Yeah.
We're not getting very far,
but that's okay.
It's a learning experience.
The team without Claude
really struggled with this
and went down a lot of different paths.
None of which were especially successful.
And we basically had to intervene
and be like,
alright, here, here is a strategy
that we know works.
Start from there,
and then this will unlock
kind of the rest of the phase
and the rest of the experiment for them.
Nice.
Oh great.
Uh, Daniel?
Daniel or Kevin?
Phase three of the experiment
was a greater degree of autonomy.
The task in phase
three was to write a program
that would get the dog
to fetch a beach ball all by itself.
Essentially, just press go
and have the robot search around, detect
the location of the ball, walk to the ball
and bring it back, all autonomously.
This is like ratcheting up in difficulty
kind of by design,
but also gesturing at the real problem
that we expect frontier models
having to solve in
the future is essentially
this kind of autonomous version
where, like
if a frontier model
wants a robot to do something for it,
it needs to be able to
solve this very hard problem.
The team without Claude in phase three
did a good job of the initial task of
coming up with a way
to track the location
of the robot in space.
They made progress on the task
of detecting the ball,
but they didn't really come close
to knitting everything together.
I miss Claude so much.
The team with Claude actually came
fairly close to finishing phase three.
I think by the end
the team with Claude was maybe an hour
and a half away from being done.
The results of the experiment
were essentially that the team with Claude
completed all of the things that they did complete
in a couple of hours faster than the team
without Claude.
In the near term
we think that AI
models are going to do exactly
what we showed in this experiment,
which is making it easier for people
without a lot of robotics experience
to engage meaningfully with robots.
Just with this one tool we have, we've
dramatically accelerated their ability
to do things with this robot.
We didn't go like train Claude
to uplift humans to do robotics tasks.
This is just a thing
that fell out of this technology.
And then maybe in the long run,
this is kind of a leading
indicator of where the whole
the whole system is going.
What today requires the combination
of a person and an AI model,
tomorrow is likely to just require the AI model.
The effects of AI are
not just going to be in software,
they are going to be in hardware
and in the physical world as well.